Add post for March 2025 Leadership Council Update (#1518)
rust-lang/blog.rust-lang.org: posts/inside-rust/leadership-council-update@6.md

+++
layout = "post"
date = 2025-03-17
title = "March 2025 Leadership Council Update"
author = "Eric Huss"
team = "Leadership Council <https://www.rust-lang.org/governance/teams/leadership-council>"
+++

Hello again from the Rust Leadership Council!
We wanted to share an update on what the Council has been working on since [our last update][update].

[update]: https://blog.rust-lang.org/inside-rust/2024/12/09/leadership-council-update.html

## Accomplishments so far

### Team structure updates

> There have been several updated and new teams added. Some of this is part of the ongoing work described in the [Shape of Rust](#shape-of-rust) section below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We have moved several teams and added some new ones. Some of this is part of the ongoing work described in the [Shape of Rust](#shape-of-rust) section below.
```

The book team (which is responsible for [The Rust Programming Language book](https://doc.rust-lang.org/book/)) and the [Rust By Example](https://doc.rust-lang.org/rust-by-example/) team have been moved from the Launching Pad to subteams of the [lang-docs](https://www.rust-lang.org/governance/teams/lang#team-lang-docs) team. This is in effort to clean up the organization of the Launching Pad. [leadership-council#123](https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/123), [leadership-council#139](https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/139).

The Edition 2024 Project Group has been converted to the Edition Team as part of the Launching Pad. This new team has a charter of clearer responsibilities for running the edition process on an ongoing basis. [leadership-council#149](https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/149).

> We approved the creation of the Mentorship Programs team as a subteam of the Launching Pad. This new team is responsible for the Rust organization's participation in programs like [Google Summer of Code](https://summerofcode.withgoogle.com/). Details about Rust's participation in GSoC 2025 was [recently announced](https://blog.rust-lang.org/2025/03/03/Rust-participates-in-GSoC-2025.html). [leadership-council#153](https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/153), [leadership-council#146](https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/146).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We approved the creation of the Mentorship team as a subteam of the Launching Pad. This new team is responsible for the Rust organization's participation in programs like [Google Summer of Code](https://summerofcode.withgoogle.com/). Details about Rust's participation in GSoC 2025 was [recently announced](https://blog.rust-lang.org/2025/03/03/Rust-participates-in-GSoC-2025.html). [leadership-council#153](https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/153), [leadership-council#146](https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/146).
```

If we merge:

- https://github.com/rust-lang/team/pull/1671

Then the name will be just "Mentorship".  This is what we had discussed on the chartering thread, and on the `team` thread, there seemed general agreement about switching back to this.

> We approved the creation of the [Project Goals team](https://rust-lang.github.io/rust-project-goals/admin/team.html) as a subteam of the Launching Pad. This team is responsible for running the project goals program. [leadership-council#150](https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/150)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We approved the creation of the [Goals team](https://rust-lang.github.io/rust-project-goals/admin/team.html) as a subteam of the Launching Pad. This team is responsible for running the project goals program. [leadership-council#150](https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/150)
```

We ended up just calling this the "Goals" team.

### Program management

> We approved reserving $200k (USD) of the Council's budget to hire for the [Program Management position](https://hackmd.io/VGauVVEyTN2M7pS6d9YTEA) ([leadership-council#151](https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/151)). This is initially intended to support the Program Goals and Edition programs. The Foundation is assisting with this process, and initial steps for advertising the position have started.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We approved reserving $200k (USD) of the Council's budget to hire for the [Program Management position](https://hackmd.io/VGauVVEyTN2M7pS6d9YTEA) ([leadership-council#151](https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/151)). This is initially intended to support the Goals and Edition programs. The Foundation is assisting with this process, and initial steps for advertising the position have started.
```

### All hands

> Work continues to for preparation of the all-hands event in May 2025 at [RustWeek 2025] which corresponds with Rust's 10-year anniversary. We discussed and approved several requests:

Reviewer 2: Maybe

```suggestion
Work continues for preparation of the all-hands event in May 2025 at [RustWeek 2025] which corresponds with Rust's 10-year anniversary. We discussed and approved several requests:
```

> - Setting up the invitations. [leadership-council#135](https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/135)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- We approved how to handle the invitations. [leadership-council#135](https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/135)
```

- We agreed to raise the cap for travel grants that the Foundation may automatically accept due to the expected higher costs of this event. [leadership-council#148](https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/148)
- We agreed that COVID safety should be a priority, and set up several expectations for the event. [leadership-council#147](https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/147)

> - Approved guidelines for guest invites to the all-hands [leadership-council#158](https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/158)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- We approved guidelines for guest invites to the all-hands [leadership-council#158](https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/158)
```

[RustWeek 2025]: https://rustweek.org/

### Additional items

And a few other items:

- Approved the removal of the "experimental" status of the travel grant program [leadership-council#122](https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/pull/122)
- Approved the changes for how license/copyright information is included in the Rust distributions [leadership-council#120](https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/120)
- Started the [March 2025 representative selection process](https://blog.rust-lang.org/inside-rust/2025/02/14/leadership-council-repr-selection.html)
- Finalized removal of core team infrastructure pieces [leadership-council#29](https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/29)
- Added clarifications for the Project Director selection process [leadership-council#121](https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/pull/121), [leadership-council#134](https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/pull/134)

> - Approved the council's ask in the [cryptographic verification and mirroring goal](https://rust-lang.github.io/rust-project-goals/2025h1/verification-and-mirroring.html) and the [all-hands goal](https://rust-lang.github.io/rust-project-goals/2025h1/all-hands.html).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Clarified and approved the ask of the council in the [cryptographic verification and mirroring goal](https://rust-lang.github.io/rust-project-goals/2025h1/verification-and-mirroring.html) and the [all-hands goal](https://rust-lang.github.io/rust-project-goals/2025h1/all-hands.html).
```
